README.md, before:

# sPLash Compiler (TComp22/23)


Author: Tomás Algarvio, fc54402


## Phase 1 - Parser

The goal is to implement a parser that takes sPLash programs and prints the AST of the program. This will be the first step torwards a full compiler.

As part of this task, you must also build a set of diverse programs written in `sPLash` both grammatically correct and incorrect to validate your parser.

In this first part of the project we're going to be constructing a grammar parser for the `sPLash` language.

### Language Description

- Comments in simPLe (meant sPLash?) start with `(*` and end with `*)`.
- sPLash is white space insensitive.
- A program is made of several declararions or definitions that precede the main body.
- A declaration includes the name of the function, it's arguments, types and refinments, as well as the return type.

```sPLash
sample_normal:Double (mean:Double, stddev:Double where stddev != 0);
```
- The refinement (where p(a)) is optional. The refinement can refer to the variable, and constrains possible values allowed as parameters.
- The return type can also be refined:

```sPLash
  abs:Int where abs > 0 (val:Int);  
```

- A definition is similar, but includes a block of code that defines the funcion, or a declaration of the value.

```sPLash
max:Int (a: Int, b:Int){
    if a > b {
        return a;
    }
    return b;
}

pi:Int = 3; (* Engineers, am i right *)
```

- Statements, declarations and definitions with values end with semicolon. Definitions of functions do not need semicolon, as the curly braces delimit the function.
    - Blocks are enclosed with { and } and are comprised of 0 or more statements.
    - Expressions are statements: 1; or f(3);
    - If statements have a condition, a then block and optionally an else block, separated by the else keyword.
    - While statements are similar to if statements, without the else block.
    - Local variables statements are defined similarly to global ones (with a mandatory starting value)
    - Variable assignments can be statements.

- Expressions represent values. They can be:
    - Binary operators, with a C-like precedence and parenthesis to force other precedences: `&&`, `||`, `==`, `!=`, `>=`, `>`, `<=`, `<`, `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%` em que a divisão tem sempre a semântica da divisão de floats.
    - The not unary operator (!true)
    - Boolean literals (`true`, `false`)
    - Integer literals (`1`, `01`, `12312341341`, `1_000_000`) where underscores can be present in any position.
    - Float literals (`1.1`, `.5`, `1233123131231321`)
    - String literals (`""`, `"a"`, `"aa"`, `"qwertyuiop"`, `"qwerty\tuiop"`)
    - Variables, which start with a letter or understore and are followed by any number of letters, underscores or numbers.
    - index access, (`a[0]` or `get_array()[i+1]`)

### Questions

1. Integer can start with underscores? (_1000_1223_4456)

Commit message:

Some work on grammar, easy testing added

README.md, after:

# sPLash Compiler (TComp22/23)


Author: Tomás Algarvio, fc54402


## Phase 1 - Parser

The goal is to implement a parser that takes sPLash programs and prints the AST of the program. This will be the first step torwards a full compiler.

As part of this task, you must also build a set of diverse programs written in `sPLash` both grammatically correct and incorrect to validate your parser.

----
### Language Description

- Comments in simPLe (meant sPLash?) start with `(*` and end with `*)`.
- sPLash is white space insensitive.
- A program is made of several declarations or definitions that precede the main body.
- A declaration includes the name of the function, it's arguments, types and refinments, as well as the return type.

```sPLash
sample_normal:Double (mean:Double, stddev:Double where stddev != 0);
```
- The refinement (where p(a)) is optional. The refinement can refer to the variable, and constrains possible values allowed as parameters.
- The return type can also be refined:

```sPLash
  abs:Int where abs > 0 (val:Int);  
```

- A definition is similar, but includes a block of code that defines the funcion, or a declaration of the value.

```sPLash
max:Int (a: Int, b:Int){
    if a > b {
        return a;
    }
    return b;
}

pi:Int = 3; (* Engineers, am i right *)
```

- Statements, declarations and definitions with values end with semicolon. Definitions of functions do not need semicolon, as the curly braces delimit the function.
    - Blocks are enclosed with { and } and are comprised of 0 or more statements.
    - Expressions are statements: 1; or f(3);
    - If statements have a condition, a then block and optionally an else block, separated by the else keyword.
    - While statements are similar to if statements, without the else block.
    - Local variables statements are defined similarly to global ones (with a mandatory starting value)
    - Variable assignments can be statements.

- Expressions represent values. They can be:
    - Binary operators, with a C-like precedence and parenthesis to force other precedences: `&&`, `||`, `==`, `!=`, `>=`, `>`, `<=`, `<`, `+`, `-`, `*`, `/`, `%` em que a divisão tem sempre a semântica da divisão de floats.
    - The not unary operator (!true)
    - Boolean literals (`true`, `false`)
    - Integer literals (`1`, `01`, `12312341341`, `1_000_000`) where underscores can be present in any position.
    - Float literals (`1.1`, `.5`, `1233123131231321`)
    - String literals (`""`, `"a"`, `"aa"`, `"qwertyuiop"`, `"qwerty\tuiop"`)
    - Variables, which start with a letter or understore and are followed by any number of letters, underscores or numbers.
    - index access, (`a[0]` or `get_array()[i+1]`)

### Questions

1. Integer can start with underscores? (_1000_1223_4456)
2. Can `-` be used as a unary operator as in `return -a` see this [![test]](/tests/abs_test.splash)
